Hey everyone, I'm Chris Crow, campus pastor for Crossway Christian Church's Millford campus here in Southern New Hampshire, where our mission is all about practicing the way of Jesus together as we pursue God, build community and unleash compassion.
I pray that what you hear today will help you experience God more deeply and live more and more like Jesus.
Thank you so much worship team.
This is a gift to be out here for those who I don't know I'm Dave and
honored to get to be with you and great to see a lot of you from Milford, a lot of pawn people in the house.
I think I got some of the strangest greetings I've received in a long time.
I stood by the door and I'm not going to make you raise your hand that so many of you walked in the door and went right when I was right there, just not expecting me.
And I was like, man, for those who haven't seen for a few weeks, I didn't think I got that
Disturbingly you know looking but apparently a little bit of a surprise I am thrilled to be here with you and For those they normally at the pond just an update looks like Monday and Tuesday We will have all of our rounds of inspections happening So we'll just be prayerful that all the boxes will get checked and we'll be able to be back in there in
December, but we were just grateful for the chance to worship together here today, grateful for the Milford community and our downtown community.
And I think one of the great advantages, unexpected sort of invitations at this time is that we're getting to connect with people from other communities and campuses and still be one church and be stronger as a result.
But I will say I am so thankful for the series that I think God knew we needed to be in for such a time as this.
And that's been experiencing Psalm 23.
text has been such an anchoring presence for me in the midst of a lot of tumultuous sort of uncertain, challenging, chaotic times at moments that we've had this fall together.
One of my real go-to prayers for many years has been, the Lord is my shepherd.
I lack nothing.
When it seems like things are swirling out of control, when it feels like the future's uncertain, when I don't know that I feel like I'm adequate enough for the tax before me.
And the enemy loves to tell me, you're not enough.
You're not good enough.
You can't handle this.
This is going to fall apart.
The Lord is my shepherd.
I lack nothing.
And the reality of that song becomes true in my life.
And I feel the Savior's and the shepherd's presence right here with me.
But we live in a world that tries to tell us the exact opposite of that, don't we?
People average marketing studies show that between five and 10,000 ads flash before our eyes every single day.
If you only had this, if you only purchased that, if you only had that experience, if you weren't so old or weren't so young or whatever it is that causes you to be discontent, if you just bought this product then,
Life would be so much better.
But the reality is we probably bought into those things and actually made purchases or tried those experiences and we found they only satisfied for a very short time.
But if we truly want to live a life that lacks nothing, it's found in the fullness of the presence of our shepherd.
And so all series long, we haven't just wanted to explain what the words of Psalm 23 mean.
We want to experience the power and promise as a reality in our lives.
A book that we've recommended all series long is by Dallas Willard called Life Without Lack.
It's all about living into the fullness of Psalm 23.
And he says that if we want to not just understand this in our minds, but experience the real sufficiency of our shepherd, then we need to be growing in faith or trust, in humility and love.
This is what he calls the triangle of sufficiency, a slide you guys have seen.
Often God allows
Circumstances and situations in our lives that feel out of our control to emerge because that enables us to trust God and to learn to need Him more.
So as we learn to trust God more, we experience more of this life without lack.
Sometimes God lets humbling circumstances come into our lives where we might feel slighted or we might feel defensive or we might feel like our ego is wounded and we can react a little forcefully or strongly.
But sometimes God lets those sort of shattering experiences to come into our lives so that we can grow in humility.
And as we grow in humility, we will be able to grow in love, which is what we're going to talk about here today.
People who are experiencing the sufficiency of the shepherd are those who are experiencing and receiving and sharing the very love of the shepherd.
And so we're gonna look at four things today about how do we grow in love through the lens of Psalm 23.
To really grow as Christ-like loving people.
God is the one who initiates.
God loves us and we need to learn to receive His love.
Then secondly, we love God.
Third, we love others.
And then lastly, we become a community of Christ-like love.
with very love of the shepherd is what permeates our lives.
But I think the biggest obstacle that a lot of us have for growing in love and growing and being a loving community is a lot of us resist receiving the love of God.
I don't know about you, but I struggle to receive gifts.
My birthday's coming up soon and people ask, what do you want for your birthday?
I'm like, I'm good.
I'd rather have nothing.
Like then I don't feel awkward and I struggle to receive that because I'd rather earn what I have.
I don't want to just receive God's love.
I want to prove it by how well I preach and how sacrificially I serve and give and whatever.
But a big invitation of Psalm 23, and this is what I hope you walk away remembering today is simply this.
the shepherd love you.
To really experience the fullness of life without lack and the presence of the shepherd, would you let him love you?
We're going to spend the bulk of our time looking at maybe why we struggle to let the shepherd love us.
But if we want to really love others, be a part of God's mission in this world, I think the thing that's missing most in Christian's lives that I talked to, it was missing in my life for a long time, was feeling like I
didn't have to prove myself my worth to God, but just to simply let him love me.
God really does love you.
Will you let him love you here today?
So I want to just share Psalm 23, the whole psalm for a final time here in our series.
And if you're open and available and willing, would you please stand as we hear the very word of God.
I was going to recite it from
You know, the translation I learned in high school and it's been something that's been a friend to me.
It's carried with me.
And if you haven't memorized Psalm 23 yet in this series, I hope you'll spend time doing so because I lean on this Psalm and it helps me sense the Savior's presence so much throughout my ordinary everyday life.
So as we hear it, let's pay attention to the shepherding love of God for you and for me and for us as well.
The Lord is my shepherd.
I lack nothing.
He makes me lie down in green pastures.
He leads me beside still waters.
He restores my soul.
He leads me on past of righteousness for his namesake.
Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil for you are with me.
your rod and your staff, they comfort me.
You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.
You anoint my head with oil, my cup overflows.
Surely goodness will follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever.
Thanks be to God.
You may be seated.
I'll admit,
sure we're going to read that out loud together, but you guys went for it.
I like it.
And then it looked like Garrett thought you guys had it all memorized.
He took the slide down there for a second and was like, well, really put everybody to the test now and see if you guys get an A plus.
You get an A plus for that, by the way.
But where did you notice the love of the shepherd here in this song?
It's not explicit in that particular translation.
Some translations will use the word love in verse six.
Surely your goodness and love will follow me all the days of my life.
Now, the word that you used here in Hebrew is one of the richest words in all of the Bible.
In English, we have about 10 times more words in English than we do in Hebrew.
So these Hebrew words are
are just loaded with significance and rich with meaning, layer after layer.
And so the word that's used here that can be translated as love is the Hebrew word chesed.
Would you guys say that out loud with me?
Chesed.
If you need to clear your throat, it's a great word to pray and to put on your lips.
It can really more literally be translated as like a loving kindness or a steadfast love or a commitment.
John Golden Gay, who is an Old Testament scholar, he has a more elongated and elaborate definition of Hesse, and here is what he writes.
He says that Hesse, the Old Testament uses this word to refer to an extraordinary act of generosity, allegiance, or grace, whereby someone pledges himself or herself to someone else when there is no prior relationship between them, and therefore no reason why the person should do so.
That's how God pursues us.
It can also refer to a similar extraordinary act that takes place when there is a relationship between people, but one party has let the other party down and therefore has no right to expect any faithfulness from the other.
If that party that has been let down continues being faithful, she or he is showing the special kind of commitment or has it.
So based on this definition, what does David hear the psalmist proclaiming?
That God will remain committed to him and committed to you, despite the times we let God down.
God won't stop loving us, won't give up on us.
We sing that song earlier, you never let me down.
That's God's hesed.
Now from our worldly standpoint, there are disappointments and things in life that ultimately happen, but in God's great, great plan.
We will never be let down because of his faithful hassid that pursues us all the days of our lives.
I'm a huge fan of the Jesus storybook Bible.
If you've not read that even as an adult, it's a great, great read.
I read it to my kids.
And Sally Lloyd-Jones who compiled this, sat and listened to a lot of Pastor Tim Keller sermons and turned it into children's Bible.
And it's phenomenal.
And the way that she captures this word, hased, or this idea of God's love pursuing us all the days of our lives is with this remarkable phrase.
She said, God pursues us.
with a never stopping, never giving up, unbreaking, always and forever love.
Do you realize that not some of the days of your lives, but all of the days of your lives?
The shepherds never stopping, never giving up, unbreaking, always and forever love really follows you.
It's really with you.
Right here, right now.
That's one of the reasons I love Sundays.
We get to slow down enough, linger long enough, to allow the shepherd's love to catch up to us.
It's a beautiful thing.
Dallas Woolier used to talk about that last verse.
It's surely goodness and mercy will follow me all the days of my life.
It's like two little dogs that follow you all around.
This past week my big Rhodesian Ridgeback had to have a little minor surgery so he is wearing the cone of shame all around and just pursuing me and the first night he wasn't allowed to go up the stairs so I slept on the couch to be with him.
pokes me, you know, and I wake up and this is lampshaded, huge head is right there, freaking me out.
Then I still thought, even in unexpected ways, God's never stopping, never giving up, unbreaking, always and for all the love is pursuing me in these ways.
This is true, but why do so many of us struggle to know that in our lives?
The first big movement of love that I shared is that we receive God's love, the God who is love.
Let's put up point number one, that we are loved by God who is love.
And the way that we grow in love is to receive that love.
I kind of alluded to this, but I think the main reason that we miss out on experiencing and receiving God's love that follows us all the days of our lives is that God is kind of moving
at a pace like this?
And what pace do you think we're moving in life?
A little faster, right?
Kind of like this.
So if we're going and God's going like this, we never slowed down enough for His love to catch up to us.
That's why God invites us to practice Sabbath, a day to play and pray and rest and just to receive His love, to stop feeling like we need to be doing things for Him, rather it's a day to be with
One of the classes and one of the things we were going to do this fall was teach a course called Emotionally Healthy Spirituality for Monday School, and that's going to kick back up on January 5th.
And the premise of this book written by Pete Scazero is simply this, that you cannot be spiritually mature while remaining emotionally immature.
That was a radical idea for somebody like me who grew up in Pittsburgh.
And we just bury all of our emotions.
The only time we express emotions was at a Steelers game, waving those annoying yellow, terrible towels, according to the rest of the world.
I think they're awesome.
But that's how we got out all of our emotion.
And so I was in my 20s when this book came out, and Scazero actually came out to my school in Colorado where we went.
And I had realized through his story that I have just
buried so much of my emotions, and one of the ways I do that is by staying really, really busy for God.
I showed up to everything that there was at church, and I was so involved, and I think I believed the right things.
Most of the time, behaved the right ways, not maybe all the time, and yet something was still really missing.
In Scazero lists, what he believes are some of the
top 10 symptoms of emotionally unhealthy spirituality.
And the first of those is using God to run from God.
In other words, we can do all this like really important Christian stuff that keeps us moving and moving and moving so that we actually never slow down enough to really let God touch our lives.
Because I think like me, well, I didn't like to slow down
Because when I would slow down, I would start to feel things I maybe didn't want to feel.
Memories would start to come to mind I didn't want to think about.
But when I slowed down enough to let God's never stopping, never giving up, unbreaking, always and forever, has His love, connect with me.
God would start to do a work of healing in my heart, restoration of my soul.
He brought me freedom to feel like I don't have to perform a certain way for God to love me.
God just loves me because He made me.
It's an amazing thing.
One story in Scripture I'd like to share with you from Jesus that
really has helped me learn to receive the love of God as the story of the rich young ruler it's found in Mark chapter 10.
And you can just follow along here as I just briefly read this story.
But it says, as Jesus started on his way, a man ran up to him and fell on his knees before him.
Good teacher, he asked, what must I do to inherit eternal life?
Why do you call me good, Jesus answered?
No one is good except God alone.
You know the commandments, you shall not murder, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not steal, you shall not give false testimony, you shall not defraud, honor your father and mother."
Teacher, he declared, all these I have kept since I was a boy.
Look at this next line.
Jesus looked at him and loved him.
One thing you lack, he said,
Go sell everything you have and give to the poor and you will have treasure in heaven.
Then come follow me at this demands face fell.
He went away sad because he had great wealth.
It's a fascinating scene because here's a guy that is kind of seeking Jesus, but Jesus doesn't tell him what he wants to hear.
And so he doesn't listen to Jesus.
He walks away from Jesus.
And I think Jesus knows what the outcome of this interaction is gonna be before it happens.
This doesn't take him by surprise.
But think about how Jesus viewed this man.
Jesus looked at him and loved him.
Even though he was a sinner, even though he was arrogant to think he's perfectly kept all these commands since he was a kid, even though he's not gonna listen to Jesus, Jesus looks at him and loves him.
Did you imagine what that would feel like to be seen by Jesus for all the good that you are and all the not so good parts of you?
He sees all of it and he looks at you and he loves you.
We need to see people, see Jesus seeing people and we need to see Jesus seeing us.
And here's my point in this.
Even though this guy is a sinner, Jesus looks at him and Jesus loves him.
Jesus looks at him and he loves him.
Now, I think a lot of people who maybe grew up in stricter church environments can suffer from the ongoing effects of this syndrome that's been called miserable sinner Christianity.
Do you know what this is like?
Miserable sinner Christianity?
A couple weeks ago in downtown, I asked people, hey, what two words describe you?
And because Jesus self describes himself as humble and gentle.
And so I always want to see, how would you describe yourself?
And somebody yelled out, wretched sinner.
That's a great description of miserable sinner Christianity.
And here's how it kind of works.
In order for me to receive God's love, I first have to just beat myself up.
I have to rip myself down, tear myself apart.
going through how horrible I am, how self-centered I am, how sinful I am.
And now the reality is all those things are actually true.
But a lot of us think I've got to just tear myself down in order for me to receive God's love.
And the converse seems to happen in this story with this man.
Jesus knows all that stuff is true about him.
And he looks at him and he loves him.
Now, there's a lot of other situations, too, where people who are deeply broken come to Jesus.
And I think Jesus interacts with them very similarly.
He helps set them straight, and after they feel so loved by Him, then they're called to repent.
Then they want to change.
Jesus sees Matthew, the tax collector, and rather than calling him out on everything, Matthew himself is seen by Jesus, and then he says, I'm going to give back
Everything I have, times like three or four.
And Jesus says, salvation's come to your house.
When God looks at you, He's looking at you and He's loving you.
Could you slow down enough today to receive that love, to let the shepherd love you?
Because if you want to love others and be a part of God's mission in the world, this is what we have to get right first.
Let the shepherd love you.
And as we receive the shepherd's love, the second movement is then we love God.
We know that's the great commandment to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind and strength and love your neighbor as yourself, which is gonna be number three.
Often we think love is the spelled L-O-V-E, but you know another way that you can spell the word love?
T-I-M-E.
It's time.
How do you love God?
You want to be with Him as much as you possibly can, not just to be busy for Him, but to be with Him, to enjoy His presence and relationship with Him, worshiping Him, praising Him, giving thanks, serving, being with God.
Let's think about
Time with God, it makes me think of Gary Chapman's book, The Five Love Language.
Anyone familiar with The Five Love Language's concept?
Kind of the idea that there are five key ways that people give and receive love.
There's quality time.
Help me out here for those who've read it here.
What else?
Quality time, acts of service, gifts, words of affirmation, physical touch.
I'm not surprised you said and you ever thought of that one, Chris, huh?
Anyone else physical touch for the receive love that way?
I got to hug you more, Joe.
I didn't realize that.
Yeah, my daughter I'm learning is a huge physical touch person and it's terrifying me about what her teenage years might just be like.
And we finally
Her brothers couldn't handle her love language.
She was constantly touching, so we finally invested in a third row vehicle.
And as long as she can't touch anybody else, the ride has gotten so much better.
What do you think God's love language is?
I'm going to say it's maybe a sixth.
I think it's obedience.
In John 14, verse 15, Jesus says, if you love me, you'll obey my commandments.
I think that's how we love God.
We trust Him enough to believe that He really loves us, really knows us, really has our best interest in mind.
So His commandments are not heavy burdens to keep us from life, but Jesus says, I have come as the good shepherd.
I've laid down my life for you.
so that you might have life and have it to the full.
Have it abundantly, John chapter 10, verse 10.
This week is John, one of our elders here alluded to.
This is Thanksgiving's coming up and it's a great week to obey some of God's commands related to giving thanks and gratitude.
And Colossians chapter three, Paul really emphasizes the importance of this and he writes,
In verse 15, let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, since as members of one body, you were called to peace.
And be what?
Thankful.
Let the message of Christ, while among you richly as you teach and admonish one another with all wisdom through Psalms, hymns, and songs from the Spirit, singing to God with what in your hearts?
Gratitude.
And whatever you do, whether in word or deed, do it all in the name of the Lord Jesus.
giving thanks to God the Father through Him.
Be thankful.
Have gratitude in your hearts.
Give thanks to God.
As I've studied about the importance of gratitude, there are different Christian thinkers throughout the centuries who would say that sin is essentially a failure of gratitude.
Why do we not obey God?
It could be because of a lack of gratitude that we fail to see the wondered, behold the beauty of God.
We fail to see how his goodness and mercy follows us all the days of our lives.
And so we think we need to go do something on our own to get what we think we really need when actually everything we ever need is really right there with God.
Sin is a failure of gratitude and a radical antidote to that then to live life to the full, to obey and love God is to become people who are too grateful.
to sin.
Too grateful to even be tempted to want something other than what God would want for you.
Imagine what that would be like.
A really popular author these days is Ann Vosskamp, and she wrote a book probably a decade or so ago now called A Thousand Gifts.
And in A Thousand Gifts, she makes the recommendation that if you would give thanks for three unique gifts that God's given to you each and every day, over a year's time, you would give
thanks to recognize and praise God for over a thousand gifts.
And studies have shown that the more thankful you are, the more content you will be, the lower your anxiety and worry will be, and the more joy you will have.
Studies that are not Christian show that what God commands us to do actually really works is actually really good for us.
One more reason that
We should trust God and love Him by obeying His commands.
So right now, I know your grandmamas will probably ask you, what are you thankful for here on Thursday?
But really, what's one gift that God has given to you that you can just thank Him for right now?
What's one way, His goodness, His mercy really has been following after you?
Give them thanks.
Recognize that.
See it.
And that will deepen your connection to Him.
So we love God by receiving, first, the grow and love we receive God's love for us.
We love God, and I think the primary way we can do that is by loving Him, obeying His commandments.
And then third, we love others.
In life without lack, Dallas Willard gives this definition of love.
It's very profound.
He says, love
is to will the good of others.
We love something or someone when we promote, it's good for its own sake.
Love is the genuine inner readiness to secure the good of others.
Love is not action, it is the source of action.
See, a lot of times we can do loving things from unloving motivations, right?
We can maybe do something for somebody so then it seems loving, but then they will owe us or we can control them.
But we wanna become people who are so pervaded with this hessid love of God that from the natural overflow of our lives, we would just have an inner disposition to pursue the good of others.
And that can be complex and we could do a long, long series trying to get into that.
Sometimes we think loving others is just people policing, just doing what they want.
But if people are doing things that are not good, do we wanna just
Applaud them for doing that and enable them to keep doing things that's not good for them or hurtful to them, not at all, no.
We sometimes have to challenge and correct.
But if our disposition is really to love others, to will their good, then we will be willing to do what we need to do by God's grace to love and secure their good.
I think in my own life right now is I'm kind of second half of life still
41 years old here for a couple more weeks and So I look at the second half of my life I think so much for the first half of our life is trying to make it it's kind of trying to prove it trying to Show you belong that you have a place and you know what that is and second half of life I think what's lived well is not so much about me doing things as much as me helping fruits grow on other people's trees How can I not be so?
focused on just what I want to accomplish, but how can I look at the lives of others and see what God might be stirring up in their lives to encourage them and equip them and help spiritual fruit grow on their trees?
That's a big thing I'm thinking about.
And love is difficult.
Pastor John Orberg, he once said, if you want to grow spiritually, find some difficult people to help you grow.
Look around the room right now.
I see some difficult people that might help you grow right here.
I think you're looking at one yourself.
I fit in with that.
But as we want to secure the good of others, we will then grow into being a loving Christ-like,
Psalm 23 community.
And that's his last movement here that we'll wrap up with here today.
We belong to and help build a community of Christ-like loving people or the church.
That's God's goal.
We can't experience a life without lack merely on our own.
We are sheep that are all following this shepherd.
And I think throughout the series, maybe you've seen some of the videos or heard stories of how some sheep, I mean, they're not only the
the brightest.
They're not only the wisest and I've had some of these even recently sent to me.
I think Bob just sent me one over here that sheep is just in this hole and the shepherd goes to this big painstaking effort to get them out of the pit.
And then as soon as he gets out of the pit, the sheep does what?
Just jumps right back into it.
And that's what the church is kind of comprised of.
Leaders and people that we just keep making those mistakes and we need to stay with one another.
to be in community, to practice that steadfast, hased love toward one another.
It's a couple nights ago, I had to hang out with some friends that I've been friends with for over 14 years and the whole time I've been here in New England and we're going around the room and just kind of catching up and sharing about our lives.
And as everyone was sharing, I realized something pretty significant.
Every one of those
guys has hurt me in some way over 14 years, and I have let down, disappointed, and hurt each one of those guys.
And yet, we haven't given up our friendship, our commitment, our relationship to one another.
I think one of the things that we get really wrong about being the church is to think it's going to be perfect, and everybody's going to be behaving the way they should, when they should,
And if we have that over-inflated expectation, then we're going to just grow in resentment because every single one of us here is a sinner.
I would say you're a beloved sinner, not just a wretched sinner, a beloved sinner, and you have limits.
Boy, that's the one thing I feel more than anything else.
I feel like I let down somebody every single day because I can't be, you know, another campus.
I can be one place at one time or I have other responsibilities.
And I can't say all the yeses I'd like to say.
And so we will let down, we will hurt.
But if we've been loved with a never stopping, never giving up, unbreaking, always and forever, hessed love,
And we receive that and experience that.
And we can extend that and share that and promote that.
And as we do, could you imagine what it would be like to be a Psalm 23 church where people are feeling and finding hope and healing and belonging in community and the sufficiency of a shepherd in a world that tells us we're not enough?
So I'd like to close here today just by praying
Psalm 23 over us collectively, that we would be this kind of community for the sake of the world.
I believe we would be an unstoppable force by God, for good, empowered by the Spirit.
Let me pray.
God, thank you, thank you, thank you, that you are our shepherd.
And that in you, we genuinely lack
Nothing that we really need at all.
Help us not just to know that as an idea in our heads, but experience that reality and the deepest parts of our souls today.
Thank you for all the ways you have led us to green pastures and lead us besides still waters.
Thank you for how you restore our souls and how you are maybe even doing that right now.
Thank you that you lead us on right past, often past, we never could have picked for ourselves, not for our sake, but for your name's sake.
I thank you, God, that even though we walk through valleys of shadows of death each and every day, that we do not need to be gripped by the fear of the enemy, we do not need to be held under the dominion
of a scarcity mentality because you are with us, God, really here with us.
Your rod, your staff, they protect us.
So may we trust in you.
Thank you, God, that somehow even in the presence of enemies, you prepare a table before us.
That's abundant.
So abundant that we could actually invite our enemies to come to the table.
You can make restoration out of those broken situations, God.
You can reconcile them.
Thank you, God, that you anoint our heads with oil.
You anoint us and bless us with abundance of blessing and spiritual gifts, God.
And so help our lives to overflow.
And thank you, thank you, thank you, Lord, that surely we can count on it every day of our lives, not some of them.
Your goodness and your hassid follows us.
And thank you for the hope that we have.
in the face of the darkness, in the midst of despair, that one day we will forever dwell in your house.
So come Lord Jesus come, thank you for being the ultimate shepherd who lays down your life for us.
May we receive your love like never before and share it so that everyone everywhere would know you.
We pray this all in Jesus' mighty name and everyone said together,
Amen.